# djangoEmployee

## Project Name - djangoEmployee

It is a server side setup built using **Django** which is a Python-based web framework.

Installation Steps
---
* Clone this project

* Move to djangoEmployee directory

* Install virtualenv: `sudo apt-get install python3-venv`

* Create a new virtual environment to run your django setup: `python3 -m venv venvName`

* Activate the virtual environment : `source venvName/bin/activate`

* Install the requirements for the virtual environment: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

* Create super user using `python3 manage.py createsuperuser` and, add username and password.

* Run the server : `python manage.py runserver`

---

**Subdirectories**  

1. employee - It contains the modules related to user employee </br>
2. mysite - default dirctory created by django framework

***curls.txt*** - It contains the different curl commands for this project.

---
### employee contains the following files:
---

***admin.py*** - It contains an entry for all the models defined, which can be viewed by the admin/superuser on the server's admin interface.

***urls.py*** - This module is pure Python code and is a simple mapping between URL patterns (simple regular expressions) to Python functions.

***views.py*** - Each url is mapped to a function in views. A view-class takes in a request and returns a response.Each view redirects a request to an API.

***models.py*** - Each model is a Python class that subclasses django.db.models.Model. Each attribute of the model represents a database field.

***tests.py*** - This contains the test cases for a particular application.

***migrations*** - This directory stores the database schema changes that are made through changes in the models.These are autogenerated whenever the command makemigration is run.

*___Note: The commands mentioned are for Linux and python version used is 3.8.12___
